Hello friends
In this video let us learn how to write
algorithm, psuedocode and draw flow chart to
find the average of five numbers
That is the input will be five numbers
Then it's average should be calculated and that should be
the output
So that is our task
And how can we perform this task Let us write
the algorithm for this task first
So the first step is to start the process
And after reading the numbers we have to find its
sum first
Then we have to divide the sum by five to
get the average
So we will need the variable sum and to store
the result we need another variable average and we have
to read five numbers from user
So we need another variable
i also So the second step is to declare these
three variables and third step is to initialise sum and
i to 0 Now we have the variables ready but we
don't have the numbers to be added
It should be read from the user. So that
is our forth step read the numbers from user
and we need to read five numbers so we can
use the variable i for that
We will read numbers one by one from the user
After reading each number we will add it to the
variable sum and also increment i
So when i becomes five it means we have got
our five numbers and we can stop reading input
So we check if i is less than five and
if it is get input X from user and add
it to sum that is sum = sum + x
and then increment i
And since this is a loop go to fourth step
again
So we check if i is less than five and
if it is get input x from user and add it to sum
that is sum = sum + x and
increment i
And since this is a loop go to step four
again
This loop will be continued five times and each time
we will get one value and it will be added
to sum
And if fourth step fails then find average by dividing
sum by five
And then print the average on screen and the last
step is to stop the process
So that was the algorithm
As you can see to implement a block of operations
We can write algorithm like this see we have for
step five
We have some sub steps
And for step six also we have some sub steps
So that was the algorithm
Now let us right the pseudo code First begin the
operation declare and initialise sum = 0 and i=0
And while i is less than five get input to X
and add it to variable sum that is sum = sum + x
and then increment value of i that
is ++i that is the loop and then find
average avg = sum/5
So we got the average finally prnt average and end
the process
So that was this pseudo code and the algorithm
now let us draw the flow chart for this process
First start then initialise sum = 0 and i =0
The next step is to read five numbers using a
while loop
So we have while i<5
And as we know for conditional statements we can use
a diamond symbol and it may have different results
So if this is true then read input to X
and for that use a Parallelogram
Symbol
Next add X to sum and increment i
And since these two operations are computations we
can use a rectangle symbol and go back to the
conditional statement
And if it is false just find the average
avg=sum/5 and again since
it is a computation
We can use a rectangle now print the result average
and end
Now let us see how this works
First start the process initialise sum and i to 0 check
if i < 5 and it is true
since i equal to zero
So it will go this way and read input X
and X will be added to sum
Also i will be incremented to 1
And again control goes back to this step
And again this will be checked and it will be
true and the same process will be repeated
And i would be 2
Now again the condition will be checked
Still it would be true
The same steps will be taken and i will become
three again while will be checked
And still it would be true
So same will happen
Input will be read
It will be added to sum and i will be
implemented to 4 again while will be checked
And still it would be true
So the same thing will happen again and i will
become five now and it checks the condition again
And now it would fail
And the program execution will go this way
The average will be found and it will be printed
So that is how a loop can be represented in
a flow chart
So our task was to read five numbers from user
and find and print it's average or screen
And we learnt how to write algorithm pseudo code and
draw flow chart for this task